# Accounting system for Swiss SME

## Table of contents
1. [Domain description](#domain-description)
2. [Vision](#vision)
3. [Scope](#scope)
4. [Stakeholders](#stakeholders)
5. [Users and their goals](#users-and-their-goals)
6. [Process discovery](#process-discovery)

## Domain description

All the bookkeeping at the enterprise is either done within the enterprise itself
or outsourced to one of the trustees. Bigger enterprises typically host and provide resources for their own bookkeeping units, whereas small and medium enterprises(SME) fully outsource their bookkeeping.

The bookkeeping is supported by
a number of available software products (SAP, Bexio, Abacus, Banana Accounting
*etc.*). The products provide the following advantages:

* Good coverage of basic accounting tasks.
* Possibility to generate financial reports in different formats and over different
periods of time.
* Good user support.

Currently, the software has still to be operated by qualified specialists(trustees).
However, it is expected that with the development of Artificial Intelligence all the
routine accounting will sooner or later be fully automated. Thus, the exploration
of other commercial potentials of the financial information is of a great interest to
trustees.

Financial analytics is one of the most attractive areas due to a number of reasons.
Perhaps the most important application of the financial analytics is financial decision
support. Financial investments and corrective actions are among the most
important financial decisions that can greatly profit from the financial analytics.

The existing accounting software can not be used for the financial analytics since
it lacks the following features:

* The functionality to integrate, analyze, compare and visualize data contained
in different reports (sometimes generated) by different software.
* The uniform format for the reports generated by software from different vendors and sometimes
for different version of software generated by the same vendor.

Existing specialized software solutions for the financial analytics(for example, *Jedox*) are complex and their price is not affordable to SME.

## Vision
Cloud native accounting system affordable to Swiss SME that allows visualize key accounting categories as function of time *i.e.* monitor key performance indicators of an interprise with time, provided as SaaS solution with monthly/yearly subscription options.

## Scope
Recording business transactions during accounting cycles and providing values for main accounting categories as a function of time. Visualizing those values on dashboards. Sharing the dashboards with interested parties.

## Stakeholders
1. Trustees - people with age above 25 years, with high education in fincance disciplinies, know Excel
2. Trustees' collaborators - people with age above 15 years, do not have high education, know Excel
3. Trustees' clients - either self-employed persons or owner(s) of SME, with/without education, typically know Excel
4. Service providers - party that provides SaaS service

## Process discovery
Process discovery was done using [Big Picture EventStorming](./docs/big-picture.md)
Part of the System Under Design (SUD) selected for implementation was further refined using
[Process Modelling Level EventStorming](docs/process-modelling.md)

## Users and their goals

1. Tenant Admin - a trustee:
    * Provide access to the System for Tenant User(s)
2. Tenant User - a trustee's collaborator:
    * Register contact 
    * Generate boards with performance analysis for it's Contact's business 
3. Contact User - a trustee's client
    * Receive performance analysis of its business
4. Service Provider Admin:
    * Provide access to the System for Service Provider User(s)
5. Service Provider User
    * Monitor payment collection from Tenants






